rebase: refactor test your assistant docs (#6976)
RasaHQ/rasa: docs/docs/testing-your-assistant.mdx

sidebar_label: Testing Your Assistant
title: Testing Your Assistant
abstract: Rasa Open Source lets you test dialogues end-to-end by running through

>   test conversations. In addition to full test conversations, you can

Author: I believe we settled on `test stories` as the preferred term. See thread: https://rasa-hq.slack.com/archives/C016FLYV4QN/p1600259900015600

Reviewer: Changed it to test stories.

  also test the dialogue management and the message processing (NLU)
  separately.
---

## Writing Test Conversations

> To test your assistant completely, the best approach is to write test conversations. These are like
> stories in your training data, but with the actual user utterance included as well.

Author: ```suggestion
To test your assistant completely, the best approach is to write test conversations. Test stories look like the
stories in your training data, but include the actual user utterance as well.
```

Author: obviously test stories everywhere, but

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Rasa Open Source looks for test conversations in all files with the prefix `test_`, e.g. `tests/test_stories.yml`.
You can test your assistant against them by running:

```bash
rasa test
```

> See the [CLI documentation on rasa test command](./command-line-interface.mdx#rasa-test) for

Author: ```suggestion
See the [CLI documentation on `rasa test`](./command-line-interface.mdx#rasa-test) for
```

more configuration options.

:::caution Testing Custom Actions
[Custom Actions](./custom-actions.mdx) are not executed as part of test conversations. If your custom
actions append any events to the conversation, this has to be reflected in your test conversation
(e.g. by adding `slot_was_set` events to your test conversation).

To test the code of your custom actions, you should write unit tests
for them and include these tests in your [CI/CD pipeline](./setting-up-ci-cd.mdx).

:::

## Evaluating an NLU Model

In addition to end-to-end testing, you can also test the natural language understanding (NLU) model separately.
Once your assistant is deployed in the real world, it will be processing messages that it hasn't seen
in the training data. To simulate this, you should always set aside some part of your data for testing.
You can [split your NLU data](./command-line-interface.mdx#rasa-data-split)
into train and test sets using:

```bash
rasa data split nlu
```

Next, you can see how well your trained NLU model predicts the
test cases using:

> ```bash {2}

Author: Why are we highlighting here?

Reviewer: To show how to define the file containing the NLU test cases.

rasa test nlu
    --nlu train_test_split/test_data.yml
```

To test your model more extensively, use cross-validation, which automatically creates
multiple train/test splits:

```bash {3}
rasa test nlu
    --nlu data/nlu.yml
    --cross-validation
```

You can find the full list of options in the
[CLI documentation on `rasa test`](command-line-interface.mdx#rasa-test).

:::tip hyperparameter tuning
To further improve your model check out this
[tutorial on hyperparameter tuning](https://blog.rasa.com/rasa-nlu-in-depth-part-3-hyperparameters/).
:::

### Comparing NLU Pipelines

To get the most out of your training data, you should train and evaluate your model on different pipelines
and different amounts of training data.

> To do so, use:

Author: ```suggestion
To do so, pass multiple configuration files to the `rasa test` command:
```

```bash {2}
rasa test nlu --nlu data/nlu.yml
   --config config_1.yml config_2.yml
```

This performs several steps:
1. Create a global 80% train / 20% test split from `data/nlu.yml`.
2. Exclude a certain percentage of data from the global train split.
3. Train models for each configuration on remaining training data.
4. Evaluate each model on the global test split.

The above process is repeated with different percentages of training data in step 2
to give you an idea of how each pipeline will behave if you increase the amount of training data.
Since training is not completely deterministic, the whole process is repeated
three times for each configuration specified.
A graph with the mean and standard deviations of
[f1-scores](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.metrics.f1_score.html)
across all runs is plotted.

The f1-score graph, along with all train/test sets, the trained models, classification and error reports,
will be saved into a folder called `nlu_comparison_results`.

> Inspecting the f1-score graph can help in understanding if you have enough data for your NLU model.

Author: ```suggestion
Inspecting the f1-score graph can help you understand if you have enough data for your NLU model.
```

Author: Should this section not go into "Interpreting the output"?

Reviewer: This F1 score graph is particularly for the scenario when you are comparing multiple pipelines which is this particular section. `Interpreting the Output` section describes the output of `rasa test` command in the default mode which is for just one config.

Author: Ah, that makes sense 👌

If the graph shows that f1-score is still improving when all of the training data is used,
it may improve further with more data. But if f1-score has plateaued when all training data is used,
adding more data may not help.

If you want to change the number of runs or exclusion percentages, you can:

```bash {3}
rasa test nlu --nlu data/nlu.yml
  --config config_1.yml config_2.yml
  --runs 4 --percentages 0 25 50 70 90
```

### Interpreting the Output
#### Intent Classifiers

The `rasa test` script will produce a report, confusion matrix, and confidence histogram for your intent classification model.

The report logs [precision](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.metrics.precision_score.html),
[recall](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.metrics.recall_score.html) and
[f1-score](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.metrics.f1_score.html) for each intent,
as well as providing an overall average. You can save these reports as JSON files using the `--report` argument.

> The confusion matrix shows which intents are mistaken for others.

Author: let's give filenames for the confmat and the histogram

Any samples which have been incorrectly predicted are logged and saved to a file called `errors.json` for easier debugging.

The histogram allows you to visualize the confidence for all predictions,
with the correct and incorrect predictions being displayed by blue and red bars respectively.
Improving the quality of your training data will move the blue histogram bars to the right and the

> red histogram bars to the left of the plot.

Author: and will hopefully lead to less red, right? 🙂

Reviewer: Added that bit.

#### Response Selectors

> In addition to intent classifiers, `rasa test` also evaluates response selectors, producing a
> report, confusion matrix, confidence histogram and errors.

Author: ```suggestion
`rasa test` evaluates response selectors in the same way that it evaluates intent classifiers, producing a
report, confusion matrix, confidence histogram and errors.
```

If your pipeline includes multiple response selectors, they are evaluated in a single report.

The report logs precision, recall and f1 measure for
each sub-intent of a [retrieval intent](./glossary.mdx#retrieval-intent) and provides an overall average.
You can save these reports as JSON files using the `--report` argument.

#### Entity Extraction

> `rasa test` also reports recall, precision, and f1-score for each entity type that

Author: ```suggestion
`rasa test` reports recall, precision, and f1-score for each entity type that
```

your trainable entity extractors are trained to recognize.

> Only trainable entity extractors, such as the `DIETClassifier` and `CRFEntityExtractor` will be

Author: ```suggestion
Only trainable entity extractors, such as the `DIETClassifier` and `CRFEntityExtractor` are
```

The report logs [precision](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.metrics.precision_score.html),
[recall](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.metrics.recall_score.html) and
[f1-score](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.metrics.f1_score.html) for each intent,
as well as providing an overall average. You can save these reports as JSON files using the `--report` argument.

The confusion matrix shows which intents are mistaken for others.
Any samples which have been incorrectly predicted are logged and saved to a file called `errors.json` for easier debugging.

The histogram allows you to visualize the confidence for all predictions,
with the correct and incorrect predictions being displayed by blue and red bars respectively.
Improving the quality of your training data will move the blue histogram bars to the right and the
red histogram bars to the left of the plot. It should also help in reducing the number red histogram bars itself.

#### Response Selectors

`rasa test` evaluates response selectors in the same way that it evaluates intent classifiers, producing a

> report(`response_selection_report.json`, confusion matrix(`response_selection_confusion_matrix.png`),
> confidence histogram(`response_selection_histogram.png`) and errors(`response_selection_errors.json`).

Author: ```suggestion
report (`response_selection_report.json`, confusion matrix (`response_selection_confusion_matrix.png`),
confidence histogram (`response_selection_histogram.png`) and errors(`response_selection_errors.json`).
```

  --out comparison_models --runs 3 --percentages 0 5 25 50 70 95
```

> Similar to how the NLU model was evaluated the above command trains the dialogue model

Author: add a link to that section, comma after `evaluated`

  --out comparison_results --evaluate-model-directory
```

This will evaluate each model on the stories in `stories_folder`
(can be either training or test set) and plot some graphs
to show you which policy performs best. Since the previous train command
excluded some amount of training data to train each model,
the above test command can measure how well your model predicts the held-out stories.
To compare single policies, create config files containing only one policy each.

:::note
This training process can take a long time, so we'd suggest letting it run
somewhere in the background where it can't be interrupted.

:::

If you have any questions or problems, please share them with us in the dedicated

> [testing section on our forum](https://forum.rasa.com/tags/testing) !

Author: ```suggestion
[testing section on our forum](https://forum.rasa.com/tags/testing)!
```
